# RALO3
RAL ozone processing code

## The sat_mod_ak utility
Developed by Luke Surl 2018-08-15<br/>
Modified by Maggie Marvin 2019-08-15

Overview: The sat_mod_ak python utility processes OMI retrieval data (as provided by NCEO RAL) 
and associated GEOS-Chem output (as generated by NCEO Edinburgh). It generates a NetCDF file with several 
fields relating to columns. Its most “sophisticated” product is the GEOS-Chem O3 column with OMI averaging 
kernals and priors applied. For normal operation, the user should only need to edit the associated options 
file, options_sat_mod_ak, before executing the utility.

Dependencies: This utility runs in python. Most modules used are fairly common, with the exception of bpch, 
used to read the binary punch GEOS-Chem files. This is a deprecated module: https://github.com/barronh/bpch. The 
binary format is likely to be deprecated soon in GEOS-Chem, in which case it will be required to update to read 
NetCDF here.

OMI Data: This utility reads L3 OMI retrieval data from IDL sav files. Data can be in either daily or monthly-average 
formats. The format of these needs to be quite precise. Monthly data is assumed to be in YYYY sub-folders, 
and daily data in YYYYMM subfolders of a parent folder.

GEOS-Chem Output: The associated GEOS-Chem output must be in the ND51 output in binary punch format. The script was 
developed for version 11 of GEOS-Chem. Files are daily. This needs to include the mixing ratio of species, as well as 
the fields “BXHGHT-$_BXHEIGHT”, “TIME-SER_AIRDEN” and “PEDGE-$_PSURF”.

Options: The user edits options in the subroutine get_options of options_sat_mod_ak. These are generally explained in 
comments in that file. When executing the script, the validity of the options will be first checked, and the 
user is alerted to errors.
